# Hotel-Cancelation-Model

In this class project, a group and I set out to build a model to detect hotel bookings at risk of cancellation. Using data found on Kaggle, we trained logistic, random forest, and XGBoost models. Our first step included cleaning the data; this involved dropping columns that were unique identifiers, had a high percentage of missing values, and columns that we created additional dummy variables for. We then split our data into two sets of test and train variables and then applied feature engineering to one train/test set. Next, we trained our models with the feature-engineered data set and the non-engineered data set. After training our models, we found the AUC score for each model using the two data sets. In addition, we also investigated model-specific information like the coefficients of variables from logistic regression and feature importance from random forests & XGBoost. Lastly, we found the precision, recall, accuracy, and F-1 scores for each model.

Our group defined our most important metric as the AUC score because of the problem we are trying to solve. As we are looking to classify which booking is likely to be canceled, we designated the AUC score as our defining metric. From our project, the model built using XGBoost without feature engineering produced the highest AUC score of 92.8. With this metric, that model can correctly classify bookings 92.8% of the time. 

The main drawback of using XGBoost or Random Forests in this scenario is that they take longer to deploy. We believed that this algorithm could be most beneficial in a web-based setting, which would require a faster decision-making model. In this situation, the logistic regression model may be the best option to use; the main drawback of using the feature-engineered logistic model is that it has an AUC score of 86.5. Should a hotel company want to minimize the number of cancellations, we would recommend using the logistic regression model in their booking process to classify whether a booking is likely to be canceled. Should the model determine that a booking is expected to be canceled, the hotel could implement some practices like requiring a deposit, offering a discount, making the booking non-refundable, etc. 
